I enjoyed this assignment because it allowed me to be a lot more intentional with my thoughts and the things that I did that didn’t involve my phone. To be honest, I did not leave my phone at home for 24 hours, primarily because it’s my main source of communication in the event of emergencies and overall just safety concerns. But I did try my hardest not to go on it at all, which was semi-successful, though my parents did call me once or twice that day. But other than that, I did not go on my phone for any doom scrolling or internet browsing. I also spent most of my time at the park with friends, enjoying the beautiful weather and soaking up the sun over the weekend. There wasn’t a need for my phone at all due to spending quality time with friends, just enjoying nature. 

The experience wasn’t particularly challenging for me since I’ve already built habits of limiting phone usage daily. It started last summer, when I decided to just delete all of my social media apps on my phone. That has prevented me from aimlessly scrolling and the temptation to spend hours on my phone on apps that just weren’t productive. I didn’t do anything to prepare for it, since on normal days I don’t go on my phone that much either. It has helped me reduce my screen time so much. I also don’t have the desire to check my phone unless it’s a phone call from people who are close family and friends. 

I feel like a big source of phone addiction is from social media. The a constant need to find entertainment on different platforms. Ever since cutting out social media, I feel like I’ve got a clearer mind that isn’t tainted by all this content online. In the ‘*I was Addicted to My Smartphone, So I Switched to a Flip Phone for a Month’* article, there was a line that said, “I have found personally that the more boring the screen,” Mr. Briones said, “the easier it is to not be addicted to it”. And I completely agree and relate to this, my phone now mostly consists of generic apps like Gmail, messages, etc., and it doesn’t allow me to just mindlessly scroll. I find myself reaching to open my Gmail app 10 times a day instead of opening any other social media apps since I don’t have any anymore.
